  Mallacht was developed as an Alternative Game, meaning a game designed with a primary purpose other than pure entertainment. In this instance, we developed Mallacht with the purpose of educating people on and preserving Irish and Celtic folklore. The game focuses on various monsters and mystical creatures that are prominently featured in Celtic folktales: what they are like and what they are known for. To play, download and run the .EXE file to install the game.

  This project was an interesting experience, as it was built in Gamemaker, which is beginner-friendly but frankly quite limited on a technical level. The primary obstacle we faced during development was issues with the software itself: namely, its software updates interfering heavily with our version control in Github. Updates in Gamemaker changed data in the game files themselves, which caused issues at runtime when pulled onto other devices. Another smaller issue lies in Gamemaker's code editor, with its features such as syntax checking, warnings/errors, and syntax coloring being hit-or-miss, which led to some confusion and a learning curve.

  Some of my primary contributions to this game are the room navigation system, which streamlined building and connecting different rooms within Gamemaker. Simply adding and arranging room_port objects in a room, and linking another room to each room_port, allowed the player character to be transported to a specific room while keeping all data saved, such as entering or exiting a house. This also allowed menu and pause screens to function correctly, without the player character object getting in the way. I also developed the inventory/item system, which allowed the player to pick up objects and view what they are carrying, as well as optionally give NPC's items in order to progress the story. The other technical programmer and I collaborated heavily on the NPC and dialogue systems as well, integrating checks and state changes for different scenarios of the player talking to NPC's. For example, having different dialogue options available depending on whether the player has a specific item, or whether the player is re-interacting with the same dialogue sequence, and unlocking rooms depending on the state of the NPC.
